# Week 0 — Billing and Architecture
## Spend & Security Concepts
I started week 0 by viewing Chirag's spend and Ashish's Security consideration videos in order to refamiliarize myself with navigation through the management console. Specifically, to review how to set up a budget, alarm, setting up the SNS for the billing alarm and setting up IAM and MFA. Both videos are very informative so I suggest my fellow cohort to review these videos as well.  

Since I already have an AWS account with an IAM user and root both set up with MFA I skipped this step. However, I did remove admin policy privileges that I had attached to my IAM user and instead created an "admin group" through the management console with the same admin policy attached to said group. Afterward I moved on to setting up my budget and billing alerts. 

Although Andrew decide to demonstrate how to do this on the CLI. I did not utilize this resource as I had already watched the previously mentioned videos which taught me how to set up both budget and billing alerts so I found it unecessary to delete what I did just to have practice on the CLI. Anyway, I followed along to Chirag's instructions as I navigated my management console. I did this through my Root account as I did not find it necessary to provide my IAM User access to my billing account or creating an entirely separate account to access billing as jumping between accounts seemed like a very inefficient way to use up my time. Regardless, once I was logged into my root account, I navigated the management console and went to "Billing Preferences". Here, Chirag explained it was wise to mark off two check boxes found under "Cost Management Preferences": Receive Free Tier Usage Alerts & Receive Billing Alerts. Both would respectively, inform me when my Free Tier Usage was approaching or exceeding the limit for that month via email notification & in order to receive notifications when thresholds set within my billing alerts and budgets were also approaching or exceeding the set budget. 

Next, I went CloudWatch, a service which tracks service usage where you can set alerts based on pre-defined or custom defined metrics that you can create. I navigated to this page by using that search bar within my web browser window. Once I was on the page (and as per Chirag's guidance), looked to the side task bar and navigated to "All alarms". If you haven't set up any alarms yet then the dashboard should be blank and requesting that you create one. I did exactly that by pressing the orange button labeled "Create alarm". I selected the "Billing" then "Total Estimated Charge" metric. This was I can cast a large net by which to monitor all possible usage within my account. It will also ask you to select your currency, (this is subject to change based on the region you're working from)since I am in the USA, I selected USD. It will then forward you to a different page where you can set the conditions that will define your thershold, I choose a "Static" thershold type whenever the estimatecharges are "Greater" than the limit you set. This limit represent your overall bottom line and entirely depends on how much you want to spend on services within AWS. Obviously, we are trying to mitigate all cost but as I am willing to spend at least $10 dollars in total for the duration of my time within the cloud camp (and thanks to the free credits I got from Andrew as well as AWS due to a billing error I received outside of this bootcamp), I set my limit to $10 USD. 

Now, once you've went to the next page, you can set up your alarm trigger by creating a new topic or using a prexisting one. Once again, under the impression you've just created this account, you would go a head and create a new topic. You can name the topic and send an email endpoint as to receive these notifications to the specified email address you enter. After this page, you'll be taken to the final page to review everything you've entered. If all looks well then you can finalize it by clicking that orange button you've been doing to move to the next sequence of setting up the alarm and voila, you have yourself your Billing Alert. Be mindful that, despite using free tier if you push past the set limit for email notifications (which according to sns pricing is 1,000 notifications)you will see a charge of $2.00 per 100k notifications. It would probably take a lot of mistakes on your end to have services running for the alarm to consistently be set off this way, but since we are being guided through the process of creating an application and deploying it through cloud infrastructure, we should be avoiding this charge entirely. 

Last thing before moving on to setting up gitpod, we need to create a budget for this project. To do this, we are gonna use are handy dandy search bar to look up "AWS Budgets". Once you've clicked it, it will take you to the empty dashboard asking you to create some budgets. Now as this point, I deleted what budgets I created with Chirag since the aforementioned video Andrew posted up got very granular on how we should set up our budgets for this bootcamp. He suggested in his video that we create two budgets: one to track actual dollars and the other to track credits we received. According to AWS Budgets Pricing, your first two action enabled budgets are free regardless of the number of actions you've configured per budget, so do not exceed this limit unless you want a daily accruement of $0.10. Anywho, on this blank dashboard will go a head and click "Create a budget". 

On the following screen, we can set up one of many parameters to hav ebudgets alert us on a daily, monthly or custom period regarding spend. As per Andrew's instructions, we will go a head and select "Zero Spend Budget". We will provide it a name appropriate to its use then provide an email for notifications to be sent too. Now, in order to respectively define both Dollar and Credit budget, we will have to edit both so they can reflect the exact type of expenditure both will be tracking. For my dollar budget I made it Monthly for the "Period" with an "expiring budget" that will range from this month till June 2023. I left the "Budgeting method" as Fixed, and set the dollar amount to $10 (but this can vary for you). I left the "Budget Scope" on the recommended setting and left "Aggregate costs" to "Unblended costs". We will proceed to press "next" at the bottom of the screen and set the Alert. Since it is a Zero-budgeted amount, the lowest you can go is "0.01" but upon creation and viewing on the budget's dashboard, it will be demarcated as "$1.00". You can set the "Trigger" for "Actual" or "Forecasted". I added an additional Alert for a percentage of actual spend, so I can be alerted if my budget ever started to rise. You can proceed to hit next until you're allowed to save your configurations and will be returned to the budgets dashboard. You will then follow the same steps to create a "credit" budget, but with one exception. Where "Aggregate costs" is on the bottom of the page, deselect all the default options and click "supported charge types". Here you can deselect or select options you want tracked. You will find the "Credits" option here. I also put "Refunds" in case I ever incur a charge but speak to AWS's Support Team for a refund, IF it was incurred in error. 